Review ch6 (#552)
worldbank/dime-data-handbook: chapters/6-analysis.tex

a back-and-forth discussion between people
with differing skill sets.
To effectively do this in a team environment,
data, code and outputs must be well-organized and documented,
with a clear system for version control,
analysis scripts that can be run by all team members,
and creation of research outputs fully automated.
Putting in time upfront to structure the data analysis workflow
in a reproducible manner pays substantial dividends throughout the process.
Similarly, documenting research decisions made during data analysis 
is essential not only for research quality and transparency,
but also for the smooth implementation of a project.

% Chapter overview

> In this chapter, we discuss the necessary step to transform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter, we discuss the necessary steps to transform
```

cleaned raw data into informative analysis outputs such as tables and figures.

> The suggested workflow starts, thus, where the last chapter ended:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The suggested workflow starts where the last chapter ended:
```

as derivative variables need to be created before they are analyzed.
In practice, however, as you analyze the data,
it is often useful to revisit construction,
and explore different subsets and transformations of the data.
Even if construction and analysis are done concurrently,
you should always code them in separate scripts.
If every script that creates a table starts by loading a dataset,
subsetting it, and manipulating variables,
any edits to construction need to be replicated in all scripts.
This increases the chances that at least one of them
will have a different sample or variable definition.
Coding all variable construction and data transformation
in a unified script, separate from the analysis code,

> prevents such problem and ensures consistency across different outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prevents such problems and ensures consistency across different outputs.
```

As a general rule, never overwrite or delete original data during the construction process.
Always create derived indicators with new names.

% Dealing with different levels of observation

> Two features of data create additional complexities when constructing indicators:
> repeated observations over time, and
> research designs comprising different units of observation and analysis.
> Let's start by the latter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two features of data create additional complexities when constructing indicators:
research designs comprising different units of observation and analysis,
and designs with repeated observations of the same units over time.
```

Reviewer: Could "different" here be "multiple"?

When your research involves different units of observation,
creating analysis datasets will probably mean combining variables measured at these different levels.

> If you followed our recommendations from chapter 5,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you followed our recommendations from Chapter 5,
```

this means combining variables that are included in different tidy datasets.
To make sure constructed variables are consistent across datasets,
we recommend that each indicator be constructed in the dataset corresponding to its unit of observation.
Once we have indicators at each unit of observation,
they may be aggregated and/or merged to different units of analysis.
Take the example of a project that acquired data at both the student and teacher levels.
You may want to analyze the performance of students on a test
while controlling for teacher characteristics.
This can be done by assigning the teacher-level indicators to all the students in the corresponding class.
Conversely, you may want to include average student test scores
in the analysis dataset containing teacher-level variables.

> To do so, you will start from the constructed dataset at student level;
> average the test scores of all students taught by the same teacher;
> and merge this aggregate measure to the teacher-level dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, you would start from the constructed dataset at student level,
average (in Stata, using a command like \texttt{collapse}) 
the test scores of all students taught by the same teacher,
and merge this teacher-level aggregate measure onto the original teacher dataset.
```

You should be mindful of two aspects while performing such operations:
the first is the correspondence between identifying variables at different levels, 

> that should be documented in the \textbf{data linkage table};

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which should be documented in the \textbf{data linkage table};
```

% Useful resources for data visualization
\textbf{Data visualization} is increasingly popular,
and is becoming a field in its own right.\sidenote{\citet{healy2018data,wilke2019fundamentals}}
Although the same principles for coding exploratory and final data analysis apply to visualizations,
creating them is usually more difficult than running a regression and exporting its results into a table.
We attribute some of the difficulty of creating good data visualization
to the difficulty of writing code to create them.
The amount of customization necessary to create a nice graph can lead the relevant commands to become quite intricate.	
Making a visually compelling graph would already be hard enough if
you didn't have to go through many rounds of searching and reading help files
to understand a command's graphical options syntax.
Although getting each specific element of a graph to look exactly the way you want can be hard,

> the solution to such problems is usually a single well-written google search away,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the solution to such problems is usually a single well-written search away,
```

No manual edits, including formatting,
should be necessary after exporting final outputs.
Manual edits are difficult to reproduce;

> the you need them, the more reproducible your output is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the less you need them, the more reproducible your output is.
```

However, as with other Markdown options, the need to learn a new syntax may
discourage take up among team members who don't work with GitHub more extensively.

% Third best
Whatever software you are using,
what matters is that you make sure to implement a self-updating process for table and figures.
We have given a few recommendations as to what we believe to be best practices,
but you will need to find out what works for your team.
If your team has decided to use Microsoft Office, for example,
there are still a few options to avoid problems with copy-pasting.
The easiest solution may be for the less code-savvy members of the team
to develop the text of the final output pointing to exhibits that are not included inline.
If all figures and tables are presented at the end of the file,
whoever is developing the code can export them into a Word document using Markdown,

> so at least this file can be updated when the code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so at least this part of the file can be quickly updated when the results change.
```

> Finally, you can export tables to csv files,

Reviewer: "CSV" or "`csv`"? -- formatting

Author: @bbdaniels to rephrase this and indicate that `putexcel` and `putword` are better solutions than exporting a csv file, because, as mentioned in chapter 2, absolute file pahts are buggy unless you can make them dyamic.

> and have a separate Excel file containing the formatting that is linked to the csv.

Reviewer: formatting again, although I would delete this sentence

Author: This was a response to Alaka's comments and a way to include the "second best" option in the chapter as well. But happy to discuss how it can be incorporated and made clearer

Author: @bbdaniels to rephrase this and indicate that putexcel and putword are better solutions than exporting a csv file, because, as mentioned in chapter 2, absolute file pahts are buggy unless you can make them dyamic.

> If all figures and tables are presented at the end of the file,
> whoever is developing the code can export them into a Word document using Markdown,
> so at least this part of the file can be quickly updated when the results change.
> Finally, you can export tables to csv files,
> and have a separate Excel file containing the formatting that is linked to the csv.
> In our experience, this setup is very unstable,
> and requires a point person in the team to be checking it continuously,
> but it is a step in the right direction compared to simply copying and pasting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If all figures and tables are presented at the end of the file,
whoever is developing the code can export them into a Word document using Markdown,
so at least this part of the file can be quickly updated when the results change.
Finally, statistical programming languages can now often directly export to these formats,
such as using the \texttt{putexcel} and \texttt{putdocx} commands in Stata, which can update or respect formatting in Office documents.\sidenote{See more details at \url{https://www.stata.com/manuals/rptputexcel.pdf} and \url{https://www.stata.com/stata-news/news32-3/spotlight-putdocx/}.}
```
